I hope I will be able to confide everything to you, as I have never been able to 
confide in anyone, and I hope you will be a great source of comfort and support. So 
far you truly have been a areat source of comfort to me, and so has Kitty, whom I 
now write to regularly. 

This way of keeping a diary is much nicer, and now I can hardly wait for those 
moments when I'm able to write in you. Oh, I'm so glad I brought you along! 
I'll begin from the moment I got you, the moment I saw you lying on the table among 
my other birthday presents. 

On Friday, June 12, I was awake at six o'clock, which isn't surprising, since it was 
my birthday. But I'm not allowed to get up at that hour, so I had to control my 
curiosity until quarter to seven. When I couldn't wait any longer, I went to the dining 
room, where Moortje (the cat) welcomed me by rubbing against my legs. 

A little after seven I went to Daddy and Mama and then to the living room to open 
my presents, and you were the first thing I saw, maybe one of my nicest presents. 
Then a bouquet of roses, some peonies and a potted plant. From Daddy and Mama I 
got a blue blouse, a game, a bottle of grape juice, which to my mind tastes a bit like 
wine, a puzzle, a jar of cold cream, 2.50 guildersand a gift certificate for two books. 

I got another book as well, Camera Obscura (but Margot already has it, so I 
exchanged mine for something else), a platter of homemade cookies (which I made 
myself, of course, since I've become quite an expert at baking cookies), lots of 
candy and a strawberry tart from Mother. 

A letter from Grammy, right on time, but of course that was just a coincidence. 
Then Hanneli came to pick me up, and we went to school. During recess I passed 
out cookies to my teachers and my class, and then it was time to get back to 
work. I didn't arrive home until five, since I went to gym with the rest of the class. 

As it was my birthday, I got to decide which game my classmates would play, and I 
chose volleyball. Afterward they all danced around me in a circle and sang "Happy 
Birthday". When I got home, Sanne Ledermann was already there. Ilse Wagner, 
Hanneli Goslar and Jacqueline van Maarsen came home with me after gym, since 
we're in the same class. 

Hanneli and Sanne used to be my two best friends. People who saw us together 
used to say, "There goes Anne, Hanne and Sanne." I only met Jacqueline van 
Maarsen when I started at the Jewish Lyceum, and now she's my best friend. Ilse 
is Hanneli's best friend, and Sanne goes to another school and has friends there. 

They gave me a beautiful book, Dutch Sasas and Lesends, but they gave me Volume 
II by mistake, so I exchanged two other books for Volume I. Aunt Helene brought 
me a puzzle, Aunt Stephanie a darling brooch and Aunt Leny a terrific book: Daisy 
Goes to the Mountains. 

This morning I lay in the bathtub thinking how wonderful it would be if I had a dog 
like Rin Tin Tin. I'd call him Rin Tin Tin too, and I'd take him to school with me, 
where he could stay in the janitor's room or by the bicycle racks when the weather 
was good. 

I had my birthday party on Sunday afternoon. The Rin Tin Tin movie was a big hit 
with my classmates. I got two brooches, a bookmark and two books. I'll start by 
saying a few things about my school and my class, beginning with the students. 
Betty Bloemendaal looks kind of poor, and I think she probably is. 

She lives on some obscure street in West Amsterdam, and none of us know where 
it is. She does very well at school, but that's because she works so hard, not 
because she's so smart. She's pretty quiet.Jacqueline van Maarsen is supposedly 
my best friend, but I've never had a real friend. 

At first I thought Jacque would be one, but I was badly mistaken.She is a very 
nervous girl who's always forgetting things, so the teachers keep assigning her 
extra homework as punishment. She's very kind, especially to G.Z. 

E.S. talks so much it isn't funny. She's always touching your hair or fiddling with 
your buttons when she asks you something. They say she can't stand me, but I 
don't care, since I don't like her much either. 

Henny Mets is a nice girl with a cheerful disposition, except that she talks in a loud 
voice and is really childish when we're playing outdoors. Unfortunately, Henny has a 
girlfriend named Beppy who's a bad influence on her because she's dirty and vulgar. 

J.R. - I could write a whole book about her. J. is a detestable, sneaky, stuck-up, 
two-faced gossip who thinks she's so grown-up. She's really got Jacque under her 
spell, and that's a shame. J. is easily offended, bursts into tears at the slightest 
thing and, to top it all off, is a terrible show-off. 
